sites/hurl.dev/_docs/capturing-response.md, before:

---
layout: doc
title: Capturing Response
section: File Format
---

# {{ page.title }}

## Captures

Captures are optional values captured from the HTTP response, in a named variable. Captures can be the
 response status code, part or the entire of the body, and response headers.

Captured variables are available through a run session; each new value of a given variable overrides the last value.

Captures allow using data from one request to another request, when working with
[CSRF tokens] for instance. Variables can also be initialized at the start of the
session, by passing [variable values], or can be used in [templates].

{% raw %}
```hurl
# An example to show how to pass a CSRF token from one request
# to another:

# First GET request to get CSRF token value:
GET https://example.net

HTTP/1.1 200
# Capture the CSRF token value from html body.
[Captures]
csrf_token: xpath "normalize-space(//meta[@name='_csrf_token']/@content)"

# Do the login !
POST https://acmecorp.net/login?user=toto&password=1234
X-CSRF-TOKEN: {{csrf_token}}

HTTP/1.1 302
```
{% endraw %}

Structure of a capture:

<div class="schema-container schema-container u-font-size-2 u-font-size-3-sm">
 <div class="schema">
   <span class="schema-token schema-color-1">my_var<span class="schema-label">variable</span></span>
   <span> : </span>
   <span class="schema-token schema-color-2">xpath "string(//h1)"<span class="schema-label">query</span></span>
 </div>
</div>

A capture consists of a variable name, followed by `:` and a query. The captures
section starts with `[Captures]`.


### Query {#query}

Query can be of the following type:

- [`status`](#status-capture)
- [`header`](#header-capture)
- [`cookie`](#cookie-capture)
- [`body`](#body-capture)
- [`bytes`](#bytes-capture)
- [`xpath`](#xpath-capture)
- [`jsonpath`](#jsonpath-capture)
- [`regex`](#regex-capture)
- [`variable`](#variable-capture)
- [`duration`](#duration-capture)


### Status capture

Capture the received HTTP response status code. Status capture consists of a variable name, followed by a `:`, and the
keyword `status`.

```hurl
GET https://example.net

HTTP/1.1 200
[Captures]
my_status: status
```

### Header capture

Capture a header from the received HTTP response headers. Header capture consists of a variable name, followed by a `:`,
 then the keyword `header` and a header name.

```hurl
POST https://example.net/login
[FormParams]
user: toto
password: 12345678

HTTP/1.1 302
[Captures]
next_url: header "Location"
```

### Cookie capture {#cookie-capture}

Capture a [`Set-Cookie`] header from the received HTTP response headers. Cookie 
capture consists of a variable name, followed by a `:`, then the keyword `cookie`
and a cookie name.

```hurl
GET http://example.net/cookies/set

HTTP/1.0 200
[Captures]
session-id: cookie "LSID"
```

Cookie attributes value can also be captured by using the following format: 
`<cookie-name>[cookie-attribute]`. The following attributes are supported: 
`Value`, `Expires`, `Max-Age`, `Domain`, `Path`, `Secure`, `HttpOnly` and `SameSite`.

```hurl
GET http://example.net/cookies/set

HTTP/1.0 200
[Captures]
value1: cookie "LSID"
value2: cookie "LSID[Value]"     # Equivalent to the previous capture
expires: cookie "LSID[Expires]"
max-age: cookie "LSID[Max-Age]"
domain: cookie "LSID[Domain]"
path: cookie "LSID[Path]"
secure: cookie "LSID[Secure]"
http-only: cookie "LSID[HttpOnly]"
same-site: cookie "LSID[SameSite]"
```


### Body capture

Capture the entire body (decoded as text) from the received HTTP response

```hurl
GET https://example.net/home

HTTP/1.1 200
[Captures]
my_body: body
```

### Bytes capture

Capture the entire body (as a raw bytestream) from the received HTTP response

```hurl
GET https://example.net/data.bin

HTTP/1.1 200
[Captures]
my_data: bytes
```


### XPath capture

Capture a [XPath] query from the received HTTP body decoded as a string.
Currently, only XPath 1.0 expression can be used.

{% raw %}
```hurl
GET https://example.net/home

# Capture the identifier from the dom node <div id="pet0">5646eaf23</div
HTTP/1.1 200
[Captures]
ped-id: xpath "normalize-space(//div[@id='pet0'])"

# Open the captured page.
GET https://example.net/home/pets/{{pet-id}}

HTTP/1.1 200
```
{% endraw %}

XPath captures are not limited to node values (like string, or boolean); any 
valid XPath can be captured and assert with variable asserts.

```hurl
# Test that the XML endpoint return 200 pets
GET https://api.example.net/pets
HTTP/* 200
[Captures]
pets: xpath "//pets"
[Asserts]
variable "pets" count == 200
```


### JSONPath capture

Capture a [JSONPath] query from the received HTTP body.

{% raw %}
```hurl
POST https://example.net/api/contact
[FormParams]
token: {{token}}
email: toto@rookie.net

HTTP/1.1 200
[Captures]
contact-id: jsonpath "$['id']"
```
{% endraw %}

> Explain that the value selected by the JSONPath is coerced to a string when only one node is selected.

As with [XPath captures], JSONPath captures can be anything from string, number, to object and collections.
For instance, if we have a JSON endpoint that returns the following JSON:

```
{
  "a_null": null,
  "an_object": {
    "id": "123"
  },
  "a_list": [
    1,
    2,
    3
  ],
  "an_integer": 1,
  "a float": 1.1,
  "a_bool": true,
  "a_string": "hello"
}
```

We can capture the following paths:

```hurl
GET http://sample.org/captures-json

HTTP/1.0 200
[Captures]
an_object:  jsonpath "$['an_object']"
a_list:     jsonpath "$['a_list']"
a_null:     jsonpath "$['a_null']"
an_integer: jsonpath "$['an_integer']"
a_float:    jsonpath "$['a_float']"
a_bool:     jsonpath "$['a_bool']"
a_string:   jsonpath "$['a_string']"
all:        jsonpath "$"
```


### Regex capture

Capture a regex pattern from the HTTP received body, decoded as text.

```hurl
GET https://sample.org/helloworld

HTTP/1.0 200
[Captures]
id_a: regex "id_a:([0-9]+)!"
id_b: regex "id_b:(\\d+)!"
name: regex "Hello ([a-zA-Z]+)!"
```

Pattern of the regex query must have at least one capture group, otherwise the 
capture will fail. Special characters beginning with a backslash in the pattern 
(like `\d`, `\s`) must be escaped: `regex "(\\d+)!"` will capture one or more digit.

> raw string for specifying pattern could be used in a future version.

### Variable capture

Capture the value of a variable into another.

```hurl
GET https://sample.org/helloworld

HTTP/1.0 200
[Captures]
in: body
name: variable "in" regex "Hello ([a-zA-Z]+)!"
```

### Duration capture

Capture the response time of the request in ms.

```hurl
GET https://sample.org/helloworld

HTTP/1.0 200
[Captures]
duration_in_ms: duration

```
### Subquery

Optionally, query can be refined using subqueries `regex` and `count`. 

<div class="schema-container u-font-size-0 u-font-size-1-sm u-font-size-3-md">
 <div class="schema">
   <span class="schema-token schema-color-1">my_var<span class="schema-label">variable</span></span>
   <span> : </span>
   <span class="schema-token schema-color-2">xpath "string(//h1)"<span class="schema-label">query</span></span>
   <span class="schema-token">regex "(\\d+)"<span class="schema-label">subquery (optionnel)</span></span>
 </div>
</div>

#### Regex subquery

```hurl
GET https://pets.org/cats/cutest

HTTP/1.0 200
# Cat name are structured like this `meow + id`: for instance `meow123456` 
[Captures]
id: jsonpath "$.cats[0].name" regex "meow(\\d+)"
```

#### Count subquery

Returns the count of a collection.

```hurl
GET https://pets.org/cats/cutest

HTTP/1.0 200
[Captures]
cats_size: jsonpath "$.cats" count
```



[CSRF tokens]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cross-site_request_forgery
[variable values]: {% link _docs/man-page.md %}#variable
[templates]: {% link _docs/templates.md %}
[`Set-Cookie`]: https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Headers/Set-Cookie
[XPath]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/XPath
[JSONPath]: https://goessner.net/articles/JsonPath/
[XPath captures]: #xpath-capture

Commit message:

Improve regex assert and capture documentation.

sites/hurl.dev/_docs/capturing-response.md, after:

---
layout: doc
title: Capturing Response
section: File Format
---

# {{ page.title }}

## Captures

Captures are optional values captured from the HTTP response, in a named variable. Captures can be the
 response status code, part or the entire of the body, and response headers.

Captured variables are available through a run session; each new value of a given variable overrides the last value.

Captures allow using data from one request to another request, when working with
[CSRF tokens] for instance. Variables can also be initialized at the start of the
session, by passing [variable values], or can be used in [templates].

{% raw %}
```hurl
# An example to show how to pass a CSRF token from one request
# to another:

# First GET request to get CSRF token value:
GET https://example.net

HTTP/1.1 200
# Capture the CSRF token value from html body.
[Captures]
csrf_token: xpath "normalize-space(//meta[@name='_csrf_token']/@content)"

# Do the login !
POST https://acmecorp.net/login?user=toto&password=1234
X-CSRF-TOKEN: {{csrf_token}}

HTTP/1.1 302
```
{% endraw %}

Structure of a capture:

<div class="schema-container schema-container u-font-size-2 u-font-size-3-sm">
 <div class="schema">
   <span class="schema-token schema-color-1">my_var<span class="schema-label">variable</span></span>
   <span> : </span>
   <span class="schema-token schema-color-2">xpath "string(//h1)"<span class="schema-label">query</span></span>
 </div>
</div>

A capture consists of a variable name, followed by `:` and a query. The captures
section starts with `[Captures]`.


### Query {#query}

Query can be of the following type:

- [`status`](#status-capture)
- [`header`](#header-capture)
- [`cookie`](#cookie-capture)
- [`body`](#body-capture)
- [`bytes`](#bytes-capture)
- [`xpath`](#xpath-capture)
- [`jsonpath`](#jsonpath-capture)
- [`regex`](#regex-capture)
- [`variable`](#variable-capture)
- [`duration`](#duration-capture)


### Status capture

Capture the received HTTP response status code. Status capture consists of a variable name, followed by a `:`, and the
keyword `status`.

```hurl
GET https://example.net

HTTP/1.1 200
[Captures]
my_status: status
```

### Header capture

Capture a header from the received HTTP response headers. Header capture consists of a variable name, followed by a `:`,
 then the keyword `header` and a header name.

```hurl
POST https://example.net/login
[FormParams]
user: toto
password: 12345678

HTTP/1.1 302
[Captures]
next_url: header "Location"
```

### Cookie capture {#cookie-capture}

Capture a [`Set-Cookie`] header from the received HTTP response headers. Cookie 
capture consists of a variable name, followed by a `:`, then the keyword `cookie`
and a cookie name.

```hurl
GET http://example.net/cookies/set

HTTP/1.0 200
[Captures]
session-id: cookie "LSID"
```

Cookie attributes value can also be captured by using the following format: 
`<cookie-name>[cookie-attribute]`. The following attributes are supported: 
`Value`, `Expires`, `Max-Age`, `Domain`, `Path`, `Secure`, `HttpOnly` and `SameSite`.

```hurl
GET http://example.net/cookies/set

HTTP/1.0 200
[Captures]
value1: cookie "LSID"
value2: cookie "LSID[Value]"     # Equivalent to the previous capture
expires: cookie "LSID[Expires]"
max-age: cookie "LSID[Max-Age]"
domain: cookie "LSID[Domain]"
path: cookie "LSID[Path]"
secure: cookie "LSID[Secure]"
http-only: cookie "LSID[HttpOnly]"
same-site: cookie "LSID[SameSite]"
```


### Body capture

Capture the entire body (decoded as text) from the received HTTP response

```hurl
GET https://example.net/home

HTTP/1.1 200
[Captures]
my_body: body
```

### Bytes capture

Capture the entire body (as a raw bytestream) from the received HTTP response

```hurl
GET https://example.net/data.bin

HTTP/1.1 200
[Captures]
my_data: bytes
```


### XPath capture

Capture a [XPath] query from the received HTTP body decoded as a string.
Currently, only XPath 1.0 expression can be used.

{% raw %}
```hurl
GET https://example.net/home

# Capture the identifier from the dom node <div id="pet0">5646eaf23</div
HTTP/1.1 200
[Captures]
ped-id: xpath "normalize-space(//div[@id='pet0'])"

# Open the captured page.
GET https://example.net/home/pets/{{pet-id}}

HTTP/1.1 200
```
{% endraw %}

XPath captures are not limited to node values (like string, or boolean); any 
valid XPath can be captured and assert with variable asserts.

```hurl
# Test that the XML endpoint return 200 pets
GET https://api.example.net/pets
HTTP/* 200
[Captures]
pets: xpath "//pets"
[Asserts]
variable "pets" count == 200
```


### JSONPath capture

Capture a [JSONPath] query from the received HTTP body.

{% raw %}
```hurl
POST https://example.net/api/contact
[FormParams]
token: {{token}}
email: toto@rookie.net

HTTP/1.1 200
[Captures]
contact-id: jsonpath "$['id']"
```
{% endraw %}

> Explain that the value selected by the JSONPath is coerced to a string when only one node is selected.

As with [XPath captures], JSONPath captures can be anything from string, number, to object and collections.
For instance, if we have a JSON endpoint that returns the following JSON:

```
{
  "a_null": null,
  "an_object": {
    "id": "123"
  },
  "a_list": [
    1,
    2,
    3
  ],
  "an_integer": 1,
  "a float": 1.1,
  "a_bool": true,
  "a_string": "hello"
}
```

We can capture the following paths:

```hurl
GET http://sample.org/captures-json

HTTP/1.0 200
[Captures]
an_object:  jsonpath "$['an_object']"
a_list:     jsonpath "$['a_list']"
a_null:     jsonpath "$['a_null']"
an_integer: jsonpath "$['an_integer']"
a_float:    jsonpath "$['a_float']"
a_bool:     jsonpath "$['a_bool']"
a_string:   jsonpath "$['a_string']"
all:        jsonpath "$"
```


### Regex capture

Capture a regex pattern from the HTTP received body, decoded as text.

```hurl
GET https://sample.org/helloworld

HTTP/1.0 200
[Captures]
id_a: regex "id_a:([0-9]+)!"
id_b: regex "id_b:(\\d+)!"
name: regex "Hello ([a-zA-Z]+)!"
```

Pattern of the regex query must have at least one capture group, otherwise the 
capture will fail. Metacharacters beginning with a backslash in the pattern 
(like `\d`, `\s`) must be escaped: `regex "(\\d+)!"` will capture one or more digit.

> [Javascript-like Regular expression syntax] will be supported soon to
> enhance the readability of matches assert: `regex "(\\d+)!"`
> will become `regex /(\d+)!/`

### Variable capture

Capture the value of a variable into another.

```hurl
GET https://sample.org/helloworld

HTTP/1.0 200
[Captures]
in: body
name: variable "in" regex "Hello ([a-zA-Z]+)!"
```

### Duration capture

Capture the response time of the request in ms.

```hurl
GET https://sample.org/helloworld

HTTP/1.0 200
[Captures]
duration_in_ms: duration

```
### Subquery

Optionally, query can be refined using subqueries `regex` and `count`. 

<div class="schema-container u-font-size-0 u-font-size-1-sm u-font-size-3-md">
 <div class="schema">
   <span class="schema-token schema-color-1">my_var<span class="schema-label">variable</span></span>
   <span> : </span>
   <span class="schema-token schema-color-2">xpath "string(//h1)"<span class="schema-label">query</span></span>
   <span class="schema-token">regex "(\\d+)"<span class="schema-label">subquery (optionnel)</span></span>
 </div>
</div>

#### Regex subquery

```hurl
GET https://pets.org/cats/cutest

HTTP/1.0 200
# Cat name are structured like this `meow + id`: for instance `meow123456` 
[Captures]
id: jsonpath "$.cats[0].name" regex "meow(\\d+)"
```

Pattern of the regex subquery must have at least one capture group, otherwise the
capture will fail. Metacharacters beginning with a backslash in the pattern
(like `\d`, `\s`) must be escaped: `regex "(\\d+)!"` will capture one or more digit.

#### Count subquery

Returns the count of a collection.

```hurl
GET https://pets.org/cats/cutest

HTTP/1.0 200
[Captures]
cats_size: jsonpath "$.cats" count
```



[CSRF tokens]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cross-site_request_forgery
[variable values]: {% link _docs/man-page.md %}#variable
[templates]: {% link _docs/templates.md %}
[`Set-Cookie`]: https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Headers/Set-Cookie
[XPath]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/XPath
[JSONPath]: https://goessner.net/articles/JsonPath/
[XPath captures]: #xpath-capture
[Javascript-like Regular expression syntax]: https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Guide/Regular_Expressions
