sites/hurl.dev/_docs/installation.md, before:

---
layout: doc
title: Installation
section: Getting Started
hurl-version: 1.4.0
---
# {{ page.title }}

## Binaries Installation

### Linux

Precompiled binary is available at [hurl-{{ page.hurl-version }}-x86_64-linux.tar.gz]:

```shell
INSTALL_DIR=/tmp
curl -sL https://github.com/Orange-OpenSource/hurl/releases/download/{{ page.hurl-version }}/hurl-{{ page.hurl-version }}-x86_64-linux.tar.gz | tar xvz -C $INSTALL_DIR
export PATH=$INSTALL_DIR/hurl-{{ page.hurl-version }}:$PATH

hurl --version
hurl {{ page.hurl-version }}
```


#### Debian / Ubuntu

For Debian / Ubuntu, Hurl can be installed using a binary .deb file provided in each Hurl release.

```shell
curl -LO https://github.com/Orange-OpenSource/hurl/releases/download/{{ page.hurl-version }}/hurl_{{ page.hurl-version }}_amd64.deb
sudo dpkg -i hurl_{{ page.hurl-version }}_amd64.deb
```

#### Arch Linux / Manjaro

[`hurl-bin` package] for Arch Linux and derived distros are available via [AUR].

### macOS

Precompiled binary is available at [hurl-{{ page.hurl-version }}-x86_64-osx.tar.gz].

Hurl can also be installed with [Homebrew]:

```shell
brew tap jcamiel/hurl
brew install hurl

hurl --version
hurl {{ page.hurl-version }}
```

### Windows

#### Zip File

Hurl can be installed from a standalone zip file [hurl-{{ page.hurl-version }}-win64.zip]. You will need to update your `PATH` variable.


#### Installer

An installer [hurl-{{ page.hurl-version }}-win64-installer.exe] is also available. 


### Cargo

If you're a Rust programmer, Hurl can be installed with cargo.

```
cargo install hurl
```

## Building From Sources

Hurl sources are available in [GitHub].

### Build on Linux, macOS

Hurl depends on libssl, libcurl and libxml2 native libraries. You will need their development files in your platform.

```shell
# debian based distributions
apt install -y pkg-config libssl-dev libcurl4-openssl-dev libxml2-dev

# redhat based distributions
yum install -y pkg-config gcc openssl-devel libxml2-devel

# arch based distributions
pacman -Sy --noconfirm pkgconf gcc openssl libxml2
```

Hurl is written in [Rust]. You should [install] the latest stable release.

```shell
curl https://sh.rustup.rs -sSf | sh -s -- -y
source $HOME/.cargo/env
rustc --version
cargo --version
```

Build

```shell
git clone https://github.com/Orange-OpenSource/hurl
cd hurl
cargo build --release
./target/release/hurl --version
```

### Build on Windows

Please follow the [contrib on Windows section].

[GitHub]: https://github.com/Orange-OpenSource/hurl
[hurl-{{ page.hurl-version }}-win64.zip]: https://github.com/Orange-OpenSource/hurl/releases/download/{{ page.hurl-version }}/hurl-{{ page.hurl-version }}-win64.zip
[hurl-{{ page.hurl-version }}-win64-installer.exe]: https://github.com/Orange-OpenSource/hurl/releases/download/{{ page.hurl-version }}/hurl-{{ page.hurl-version }}-win64-installer.exe
[hurl-{{ page.hurl-version }}-x86_64-osx.tar.gz]: https://github.com/Orange-OpenSource/hurl/releases/download/{{ page.hurl-version }}/hurl-{{ page.hurl-version }}-x86_64-osx.tar.gz
[hurl-{{ page.hurl-version }}-x86_64-linux.tar.gz]: https://github.com/Orange-OpenSource/hurl/releases/download/{{ page.hurl-version }}/hurl-{{ page.hurl-version }}-x86_64-linux.tar.gz
[Homebrew]: https://brew.sh
[AUR]: https://wiki.archlinux.org/index.php/Arch_User_Repository
[`hurl-bin` package]: https://aur.archlinux.org/packages/hurl-bin/
[install]: https://www.rust-lang.org/tools/install
[Rust]: https://www.rust-lang.org
[contrib on Windows section]: https://github.com/Orange-OpenSource/hurl/blob/master/contrib/windows/README.md

Commit message:

Add meta description to improve seo performances.

sites/hurl.dev/_docs/installation.md, after:

---
layout: doc
title: Installation
description: How to install or build Hurl on Linux, macOS and Windows platform.
section: Getting Started
hurl-version: 1.4.0
---
# {{ page.title }}

## Binaries Installation

### Linux

Precompiled binary is available at [hurl-{{ page.hurl-version }}-x86_64-linux.tar.gz]:

```shell
INSTALL_DIR=/tmp
curl -sL https://github.com/Orange-OpenSource/hurl/releases/download/{{ page.hurl-version }}/hurl-{{ page.hurl-version }}-x86_64-linux.tar.gz | tar xvz -C $INSTALL_DIR
export PATH=$INSTALL_DIR/hurl-{{ page.hurl-version }}:$PATH

hurl --version
hurl {{ page.hurl-version }}
```


#### Debian / Ubuntu

For Debian / Ubuntu, Hurl can be installed using a binary .deb file provided in each Hurl release.

```shell
curl -LO https://github.com/Orange-OpenSource/hurl/releases/download/{{ page.hurl-version }}/hurl_{{ page.hurl-version }}_amd64.deb
sudo dpkg -i hurl_{{ page.hurl-version }}_amd64.deb
```

#### Arch Linux / Manjaro

[`hurl-bin` package] for Arch Linux and derived distros are available via [AUR].

### macOS

Precompiled binary is available at [hurl-{{ page.hurl-version }}-x86_64-osx.tar.gz].

Hurl can also be installed with [Homebrew]:

```shell
brew tap jcamiel/hurl
brew install hurl

hurl --version
hurl {{ page.hurl-version }}
```

### Windows

#### Zip File

Hurl can be installed from a standalone zip file [hurl-{{ page.hurl-version }}-win64.zip]. You will need to update your `PATH` variable.


#### Installer

An installer [hurl-{{ page.hurl-version }}-win64-installer.exe] is also available. 


### Cargo

If you're a Rust programmer, Hurl can be installed with cargo.

```
cargo install hurl
```

## Building From Sources

Hurl sources are available in [GitHub].

### Build on Linux, macOS

Hurl depends on libssl, libcurl and libxml2 native libraries. You will need their development files in your platform.

```shell
# debian based distributions
apt install -y pkg-config libssl-dev libcurl4-openssl-dev libxml2-dev

# redhat based distributions
yum install -y pkg-config gcc openssl-devel libxml2-devel

# arch based distributions
pacman -Sy --noconfirm pkgconf gcc openssl libxml2
```

Hurl is written in [Rust]. You should [install] the latest stable release.

```shell
curl https://sh.rustup.rs -sSf | sh -s -- -y
source $HOME/.cargo/env
rustc --version
cargo --version
```

Build

```shell
git clone https://github.com/Orange-OpenSource/hurl
cd hurl
cargo build --release
./target/release/hurl --version
```

### Build on Windows

Please follow the [contrib on Windows section].

[GitHub]: https://github.com/Orange-OpenSource/hurl
[hurl-{{ page.hurl-version }}-win64.zip]: https://github.com/Orange-OpenSource/hurl/releases/download/{{ page.hurl-version }}/hurl-{{ page.hurl-version }}-win64.zip
[hurl-{{ page.hurl-version }}-win64-installer.exe]: https://github.com/Orange-OpenSource/hurl/releases/download/{{ page.hurl-version }}/hurl-{{ page.hurl-version }}-win64-installer.exe
[hurl-{{ page.hurl-version }}-x86_64-osx.tar.gz]: https://github.com/Orange-OpenSource/hurl/releases/download/{{ page.hurl-version }}/hurl-{{ page.hurl-version }}-x86_64-osx.tar.gz
[hurl-{{ page.hurl-version }}-x86_64-linux.tar.gz]: https://github.com/Orange-OpenSource/hurl/releases/download/{{ page.hurl-version }}/hurl-{{ page.hurl-version }}-x86_64-linux.tar.gz
[Homebrew]: https://brew.sh
[AUR]: https://wiki.archlinux.org/index.php/Arch_User_Repository
[`hurl-bin` package]: https://aur.archlinux.org/packages/hurl-bin/
[install]: https://www.rust-lang.org/tools/install
[Rust]: https://www.rust-lang.org
[contrib on Windows section]: https://github.com/Orange-OpenSource/hurl/blob/master/contrib/windows/README.md
