sites/hurl.dev/_docs/samples.md, before:

---
layout: doc
title: Samples
---
# {{ page.title }}

## Getting Data {#getting-data}

A simple GET:

```hurl
GET https://example.net
```

[Doc]({% link _docs/request.md %}#method)

A simple GET with headers:

```hurl
GET https://example.net/news
User-Agent: Mozilla/5.0 
Accept: */*
Accept-Language: en-US,en;q=0.5
Accept-Encoding: gzip, deflate, br
Connection: keep-alive
```

[Doc]({% link _docs/request.md %}#headers)

### Query Params {#query-params}

```hurl
GET https://example.net/news
[QueryStringParams]
order: newest
search: something to search
count: 100
```

Or:

```hurl
GET https://example.net/news?order=newest&search=something%20to%20search&count=100
```

[Doc]({% link _docs/request.md %}#query-parameters)

## Sending Data {#sending-data}

### Sending HTML Form Datas {#sending-html-form-datas}

{% raw %}
```hurl
POST https://example.net/contact
[FormParams]
default: false
token: {{token}}
email: john.doe@rookie.org
number: 33611223344
```
{% endraw %}

[Doc]({% link _docs/request.md %}#form-parameters)

### Sending Multipart Form Datas {#sending-multipart-form-datas}

{% raw %}
```hurl
POST https://example.net/upload
[MultipartFormData]
field1: value1
field2: file,example.txt;
# On can specify the file content type:
field3: file,example.zip; application/zip
```
{% endraw %}

[Doc]({% link _docs/request.md %}#multipart-form-data)

### Posting a JSON Body {#posting-a-json-body}

With an inline JSON:

```hurl
POST https://api.example.net/tests
{
    "id": "456",
    "evaluate": true
}
```

[Doc]({% link _docs/request.md %}#json-body)

With a local file:

```hurl
POST https://api.example.net/tests
Content-Type: application/json
file,data.json;
```

[Doc]({% link _docs/request.md %}#file-body)

### Templating a JSON/XML Body {#templating-a-json-xml-body}

Using templates with [JSON body]({% link _docs/request.md %}#json-body) or [XML body]({% link _docs/request.md %}#xml
-body)
 is not currently supported in Hurl. Besides, you can use templates in [raw string body]({% link _docs/request.md %}#raw
 -string-body) with variables to send a JSON or XML body:
 
{% raw %}
~~~hurl
PUT https://api.example.net/hits
Content-Type: application/json
```
{
    "key0": "{{a_string}}",
    "key1": {{a_bool}},
    "key2": {{a_null}},
    "key3": {{a_number}}
}
```
~~~
{% endraw %}

Variables can be initialized via command line:

```bash
$ hurl --variable key0=apple \
       --variable key1=true \
       --variable key2=null \
       --variable key3=42 \
       test.hurl
```

Resulting in a PUT request with the following JSON body:

```
{
    "key0": "apple",
    "key1": true,
    "key2": null,
    "key3": 42
}
```

[Doc]({% link _docs/request.md %}#raw-string-body)

## Testing Response {#testing-response}

### Testing Response Headers {#testing-response-headers}

Use implicit response asserts to test header values:

```hurl
GET http://www.example.org/index.html

HTTP/1.0 200
Set-Cookie: theme=light
Set-Cookie: sessionToken=abc123; Expires=Wed, 09 Jun 2021 10:18:14 GMT
```

[Doc]({% link _docs/asserting-response.md %}#headers)


Or use explicit response asserts with [predicates]({% link _docs/asserting-response.md %}#predicates):

```hurl
GET https://example.net

HTTP/1.1 302
[Asserts]
header "Location" contains "www.example.net"
```

[Doc]({% link _docs/asserting-response.md %}#header-assert)


### Testing REST Apis {#testing-rest-apis}

Asserting JSON body response with [JSONPath](https://goessner.net/articles/JsonPath/):

```hurl
GET https//example.org/order
screencapability: low

HTTP/1.1 200
[Asserts]
jsonpath "$.validated" equals true
jsonpath "$.userInfo.firstName" equals "Franck"
jsonpath "$.userInfo.lastName" equals "Herbert"
jsonpath "$.hasDevice" equals false
jsonpath "$.links" countEquals 12
jsonpath "$.state" not equals null
```

[Doc]({% link _docs/asserting-response.md %}#jsonpath-assert)

Testing status code:

```hurl
GET https//example.org/order/435

HTTP/1.1 200
```

[Doc]({% link _docs/asserting-response.md %}#version-status)

```hurl
GET https//example.org/order/435

# Testing status code is in a 200-300 range
HTTP/1.1 *
[Asserts]
status greaterThanOrEquals 200
status lessThan 300
```

[Doc]({% link _docs/asserting-response.md %}#status-assert)


### Testing HTML Response {#testing-html-response}

```hurl
GET https://example.com

HTTP/1.1 200
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

[Asserts]
xpath "string(/html/head/title)" contains "Example" # Check title
xpath "count(//p)" equals 2  # Check the number of p
xpath "//p" countEquals 2  # Similar assert for p
xpath "boolean(count(//h2))" equals false  # Check there is no h2  
xpath "//h2" not exists  # Similar assert for h2
```

[Doc]({% link _docs/asserting-response.md %}#xpath-assert)

### Testing Set-Cookie Attributes {#testing-set-cookie-attributes}

```hurl
GET http://myserver.com/home

HTTP/1.0 200
[Asserts]
cookie "JSESSIONID" equals "8400BAFE2F66443613DC38AE3D9D6239"
cookie "JSESSIONID[Value]" equals "8400BAFE2F66443613DC38AE3D9D6239"
cookie "JSESSIONID[Expires]" contains "Wed, 13 Jan 2021"
cookie "JSESSIONID[Secure]" exists
cookie "JSESSIONID[HttpOnly]" exists
cookie "JSESSIONID[SameSite]" equals "Lax"
```

[Doc]({% link _docs/asserting-response.md %}#cookie-assert)

## Others {#others}

### Testing Endpoint Performance {#testing-endpoint-performance}

```hurl
GET https://sample.org/helloworld

HTTP/* *
[Asserts]
duration lessThan 1000   # Check that response time is less than one second
```

[Doc]({% link _docs/asserting-response.md %}#duration-assert)

### Using SOAP Apis {#using-soap-apis}

```hurl
POST https://example.net/InStock
Content-Type: application/soap+xml; charset=utf-8
SOAPAction: "http://www.w3.org/2003/05/soap-envelope"
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<soap:Envelope xmlns:soap="http://www.w3.org/2003/05/soap-envelope" xmlns:m="http://www.example.org">
  <soap:Header></soap:Header>
  <soap:Body>
    <m:GetStockPrice>
      <m:StockName>GOOG</m:StockName>
    </m:GetStockPrice>
  </soap:Body>
</soap:Envelope>

HTTP/1.1 200
```

[Doc]({% link _docs/request.md %}#xml-body)

### Capturing and Using a CSRF Token {#capturing-and-using-a-csrf-token}

{% raw %}
```hurl
GET https://example.net

HTTP/* 200
[Captures]
csrf_token: xpath "string(//meta[@name='_csrf_token']/@content)"

POST https://example.net/login?user=toto&password=1234
X-CSRF-TOKEN: {{csrf_token}}

HTTP/* 302
```
{% endraw %}

[Doc]({% link _docs/capturing-response.md %}#xpath-capture)

Commit message:

Add how to run sample.

sites/hurl.dev/_docs/samples.md, after:

---
layout: doc
title: Samples
---
# {{ page.title }}

To run a sample, you can edit a file with the sample content, and use Hurl:

```
$ vi sample.hurl

GET https://example.net

$ hurl sample.hurl
```


## Getting Data {#getting-data}

A simple GET:

```hurl
GET https://example.net
```

[Doc]({% link _docs/request.md %}#method)

A simple GET with headers:

```hurl
GET https://example.net/news
User-Agent: Mozilla/5.0 
Accept: */*
Accept-Language: en-US,en;q=0.5
Accept-Encoding: gzip, deflate, br
Connection: keep-alive
```

[Doc]({% link _docs/request.md %}#headers)

### Query Params {#query-params}

```hurl
GET https://example.net/news
[QueryStringParams]
order: newest
search: something to search
count: 100
```

Or:

```hurl
GET https://example.net/news?order=newest&search=something%20to%20search&count=100
```

[Doc]({% link _docs/request.md %}#query-parameters)

## Sending Data {#sending-data}

### Sending HTML Form Datas {#sending-html-form-datas}

{% raw %}
```hurl
POST https://example.net/contact
[FormParams]
default: false
token: {{token}}
email: john.doe@rookie.org
number: 33611223344
```
{% endraw %}

[Doc]({% link _docs/request.md %}#form-parameters)

### Sending Multipart Form Datas {#sending-multipart-form-datas}

{% raw %}
```hurl
POST https://example.net/upload
[MultipartFormData]
field1: value1
field2: file,example.txt;
# On can specify the file content type:
field3: file,example.zip; application/zip
```
{% endraw %}

[Doc]({% link _docs/request.md %}#multipart-form-data)

### Posting a JSON Body {#posting-a-json-body}

With an inline JSON:

```hurl
POST https://api.example.net/tests
{
    "id": "456",
    "evaluate": true
}
```

[Doc]({% link _docs/request.md %}#json-body)

With a local file:

```hurl
POST https://api.example.net/tests
Content-Type: application/json
file,data.json;
```

[Doc]({% link _docs/request.md %}#file-body)

### Templating a JSON/XML Body {#templating-a-json-xml-body}

Using templates with [JSON body]({% link _docs/request.md %}#json-body) or [XML body]({% link _docs/request.md %}#xml
-body)
 is not currently supported in Hurl. Besides, you can use templates in [raw string body]({% link _docs/request.md %}#raw
 -string-body) with variables to send a JSON or XML body:
 
{% raw %}
~~~hurl
PUT https://api.example.net/hits
Content-Type: application/json
```
{
    "key0": "{{a_string}}",
    "key1": {{a_bool}},
    "key2": {{a_null}},
    "key3": {{a_number}}
}
```
~~~
{% endraw %}

Variables can be initialized via command line:

```bash
$ hurl --variable key0=apple \
       --variable key1=true \
       --variable key2=null \
       --variable key3=42 \
       test.hurl
```

Resulting in a PUT request with the following JSON body:

```
{
    "key0": "apple",
    "key1": true,
    "key2": null,
    "key3": 42
}
```

[Doc]({% link _docs/request.md %}#raw-string-body)

## Testing Response {#testing-response}

### Testing Response Headers {#testing-response-headers}

Use implicit response asserts to test header values:

```hurl
GET http://www.example.org/index.html

HTTP/1.0 200
Set-Cookie: theme=light
Set-Cookie: sessionToken=abc123; Expires=Wed, 09 Jun 2021 10:18:14 GMT
```

[Doc]({% link _docs/asserting-response.md %}#headers)


Or use explicit response asserts with [predicates]({% link _docs/asserting-response.md %}#predicates):

```hurl
GET https://example.net

HTTP/1.1 302
[Asserts]
header "Location" contains "www.example.net"
```

[Doc]({% link _docs/asserting-response.md %}#header-assert)


### Testing REST Apis {#testing-rest-apis}

Asserting JSON body response with [JSONPath](https://goessner.net/articles/JsonPath/):

```hurl
GET https//example.org/order
screencapability: low

HTTP/1.1 200
[Asserts]
jsonpath "$.validated" equals true
jsonpath "$.userInfo.firstName" equals "Franck"
jsonpath "$.userInfo.lastName" equals "Herbert"
jsonpath "$.hasDevice" equals false
jsonpath "$.links" countEquals 12
jsonpath "$.state" not equals null
```

[Doc]({% link _docs/asserting-response.md %}#jsonpath-assert)

Testing status code:

```hurl
GET https//example.org/order/435

HTTP/1.1 200
```

[Doc]({% link _docs/asserting-response.md %}#version-status)

```hurl
GET https//example.org/order/435

# Testing status code is in a 200-300 range
HTTP/1.1 *
[Asserts]
status greaterThanOrEquals 200
status lessThan 300
```

[Doc]({% link _docs/asserting-response.md %}#status-assert)


### Testing HTML Response {#testing-html-response}

```hurl
GET https://example.com

HTTP/1.1 200
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

[Asserts]
xpath "string(/html/head/title)" contains "Example" # Check title
xpath "count(//p)" equals 2  # Check the number of p
xpath "//p" countEquals 2  # Similar assert for p
xpath "boolean(count(//h2))" equals false  # Check there is no h2  
xpath "//h2" not exists  # Similar assert for h2
```

[Doc]({% link _docs/asserting-response.md %}#xpath-assert)

### Testing Set-Cookie Attributes {#testing-set-cookie-attributes}

```hurl
GET http://myserver.com/home

HTTP/1.0 200
[Asserts]
cookie "JSESSIONID" equals "8400BAFE2F66443613DC38AE3D9D6239"
cookie "JSESSIONID[Value]" equals "8400BAFE2F66443613DC38AE3D9D6239"
cookie "JSESSIONID[Expires]" contains "Wed, 13 Jan 2021"
cookie "JSESSIONID[Secure]" exists
cookie "JSESSIONID[HttpOnly]" exists
cookie "JSESSIONID[SameSite]" equals "Lax"
```

[Doc]({% link _docs/asserting-response.md %}#cookie-assert)

## Others {#others}

### Testing Endpoint Performance {#testing-endpoint-performance}

```hurl
GET https://sample.org/helloworld

HTTP/* *
[Asserts]
duration lessThan 1000   # Check that response time is less than one second
```

[Doc]({% link _docs/asserting-response.md %}#duration-assert)

### Using SOAP Apis {#using-soap-apis}

```hurl
POST https://example.net/InStock
Content-Type: application/soap+xml; charset=utf-8
SOAPAction: "http://www.w3.org/2003/05/soap-envelope"
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<soap:Envelope xmlns:soap="http://www.w3.org/2003/05/soap-envelope" xmlns:m="http://www.example.org">
  <soap:Header></soap:Header>
  <soap:Body>
    <m:GetStockPrice>
      <m:StockName>GOOG</m:StockName>
    </m:GetStockPrice>
  </soap:Body>
</soap:Envelope>

HTTP/1.1 200
```

[Doc]({% link _docs/request.md %}#xml-body)

### Capturing and Using a CSRF Token {#capturing-and-using-a-csrf-token}

{% raw %}
```hurl
GET https://example.net

HTTP/* 200
[Captures]
csrf_token: xpath "string(//meta[@name='_csrf_token']/@content)"

POST https://example.net/login?user=toto&password=1234
X-CSRF-TOKEN: {{csrf_token}}

HTTP/* 302
```
{% endraw %}

[Doc]({% link _docs/capturing-response.md %}#xpath-capture)
