sites/hurl.dev/index.md, before:

---
layout: home
title: Hurl - Run and Test HTTP Requests
---

<div class="home-logo">
<picture>
    <source srcset="{{ '/assets/img/logo-dark.svg' | prepend:site.baseurl }}" media="(prefers-color-scheme: dark)" width="264px">
    <img src="{{ '/assets/img/logo-light.svg' | prepend:site.baseurl }}" width="264px" />
</picture>
</div>



# What's Hurl?

Hurl is a command line tool that performs HTTP requests defined in a simple plain text format.

It can perform requests, capture values and evaluate queries on headers and body response. Hurl is very versatile: 
it can be used for both fetching data and testing HTTP sessions.

{% raw %}
```hurl
# Get home:
GET https://example.net

HTTP/1.1 200
[Captures]
csrf_token: xpath "string(//meta[@name='_csrf_token']/@content)"

# Do login!
POST https://example.net/login?user=toto&password=1234
X-CSRF-TOKEN: {{csrf_token}}

HTTP/1.1 302
```
{% endraw %}

Chaining multiple requests is easy:

```hurl
GET https://api.example.net/health
GET https://api.example.net/health
GET https://api.example.net/health
GET https://api.example.net/health
```

# Also an HTTP Test Tool

Hurl can run HTTP requests but can also be used to test HTTP responses. 
Different type of queries and predicates are supported, from [XPath](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/XPath) 
and [JSONPath](https://goessner.net/articles/JsonPath/) on body response, to assert on status code and response headers.

```hurl
GET https://example.net

HTTP/1.1 200
[Asserts]
xpath "normalize-space(//head/title)" equals "Hello world!"
```
 
It is well adapted for REST/json apis 

```hurl
POST https://api.example.net/tests
{
    "id": "456",
    "evaluate": true
}

HTTP/1.1 200
[Asserts]
jsonpath "$.status" equals "RUNNING"      # Check the status code
jsonpath "$.tests" countEquals 25         # Check the number of items

```

and even SOAP apis

```hurl
POST https://example.net/InStock
Content-Type: application/soap+xml; charset=utf-8
SOAPAction: "http://www.w3.org/2003/05/soap-envelope"
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<soap:Envelope xmlns:soap="http://www.w3.org/2003/05/soap-envelope" xmlns:m="http://www.example.org">
  <soap:Header></soap:Header>
  <soap:Body>
    <m:GetStockPrice>
      <m:StockName>GOOG</m:StockName>
    </m:GetStockPrice>
  </soap:Body>
</soap:Envelope>

HTTP/1.1 200
```

# Hurl is Fast

Hurl is a lightweight binary written in [Rust](https://www.rust-lang.org), and a Java based 
implementation is also available. Hurl is free and [open source](https://github.com/Orange-OpenSource/hurl), and can be used 
in CI/CD pipelines to monitor web services, integration tests suites etc...

# Installation

See the [the installation section]({% link _docs/installation.md %}).

# Feedbacks

Hurl file format and runners are still in beta, any feedback, suggestion, bugs or improvements are welcome.

```hurl
POST https://hurl.dev/api/feedback
{
  "name": "John Doe",
  "feedback": "Hurl is awesome !"
}
HTTP/1.1 200
```

# Resources

[License]({% link _docs/license.md %})

[Documentation]({% link _docs/man-page.md %})

[GitHub](https://github.com/Orange-OpenSource/hurl)

Commit message:

Add curl ref on Home and compression in response.

sites/hurl.dev/index.md, after:

---
layout: home
title: Hurl - Run and Test HTTP Requests
---

<div class="home-logo">
<picture>
    <source srcset="{{ '/assets/img/logo-dark.svg' | prepend:site.baseurl }}" media="(prefers-color-scheme: dark)" width="264px">
    <img src="{{ '/assets/img/logo-light.svg' | prepend:site.baseurl }}" width="264px" />
</picture>
</div>



# What's Hurl?

Hurl is a command line tool that runs HTTP requests defined in a simple plain text format.

It can perform requests, capture values and evaluate queries on headers and body response. Hurl is very versatile: 
it can be used for both fetching data and testing HTTP sessions.

{% raw %}
```hurl
# Get home:
GET https://example.net

HTTP/1.1 200
[Captures]
csrf_token: xpath "string(//meta[@name='_csrf_token']/@content)"

# Do login!
POST https://example.net/login?user=toto&password=1234
X-CSRF-TOKEN: {{csrf_token}}

HTTP/1.1 302
```
{% endraw %}

Chaining multiple requests is easy:

```hurl
GET https://api.example.net/health
GET https://api.example.net/health
GET https://api.example.net/health
GET https://api.example.net/health
```

# Also an HTTP Test Tool

Hurl can run HTTP requests but can also be used to test HTTP responses. 
Different type of queries and predicates are supported, from [XPath](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/XPath) 
and [JSONPath](https://goessner.net/articles/JsonPath/) on body response, to assert on status code and response headers.

```hurl
GET https://example.net

HTTP/1.1 200
[Asserts]
xpath "normalize-space(//head/title)" equals "Hello world!"
```
 
It is well adapted for REST/json apis 

```hurl
POST https://api.example.net/tests
{
    "id": "456",
    "evaluate": true
}

HTTP/1.1 200
[Asserts]
jsonpath "$.status" equals "RUNNING"      # Check the status code
jsonpath "$.tests" countEquals 25         # Check the number of items

```

and even SOAP apis

```hurl
POST https://example.net/InStock
Content-Type: application/soap+xml; charset=utf-8
SOAPAction: "http://www.w3.org/2003/05/soap-envelope"
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<soap:Envelope xmlns:soap="http://www.w3.org/2003/05/soap-envelope" xmlns:m="http://www.example.org">
  <soap:Header></soap:Header>
  <soap:Body>
    <m:GetStockPrice>
      <m:StockName>GOOG</m:StockName>
    </m:GetStockPrice>
  </soap:Body>
</soap:Envelope>

HTTP/1.1 200
```

# Powered by curl

Under the hood, Hurl HTTP engine is powered by [libcurl](https://curl.haxx.se/libcurl/), one of the most powerful and
 reliable file transfer library. With its text file format, Hurl adds syntaxic sugar to run and tests HTTP requests, 
 but it's still the curl that we love.   

# Hurl is Fast

Hurl is a lightweight binary written in [Rust](https://www.rust-lang.org), and a Java based 
implementation is also available. Hurl is free and [open source](https://github.com/Orange-OpenSource/hurl), and can be used 
in CI/CD pipelines to monitor web services, integration tests suites etc...

# Installation

See the [the installation section]({% link _docs/installation.md %}).

# Feedbacks

Hurl file format and runners are still in beta, any feedback, suggestion, bugs or improvements are welcome.

```hurl
POST https://hurl.dev/api/feedback
{
  "name": "John Doe",
  "feedback": "Hurl is awesome !"
}
HTTP/1.1 200
```

# Resources

[License]({% link _docs/license.md %})

[Documentation]({% link _docs/man-page.md %})

[GitHub](https://github.com/Orange-OpenSource/hurl)
